# zaEngine
This is a Content Management System created for learning purposes. It has suffered a lot of changes and improves during this commits. If you want to see a changelog of this look at the [Versions ](#versions). Project is not regularly maintained and can have severe security issues because of the little time I have.

# Installation with Docker
I tried to automate as much as I could and these are the new steps:
* Clone the repository 'git clone https://github.com/zaBogdan/zaEngine.git'
* Change to the directory 'cd zaEngine'
* Run the composer to get all dependencies 'composer install'
* Fill up the 'docker-compose.yml.example' with credentials ( new ones )
* Rename the file into 'docker-compose.yml'
* Start up docker with 'docker-compose up'
* Go to the web at 'http://localhost:8000/admin/install/' and follow the instructions there

> **Note:** The credentials in 'docker-compose.yml' can be anything you want. There are just for setup purposes.

And that's it. You've installed the application!

# Installation without Docker
Even if I don't recommend it because it can be a huge pain on some operating systems, these are the steps.
* Clone the repository 'git clone https://github.com/zaBogdan/zaEngine.git'
* Change to the directory 'cd zaEngine'
* Run the composer to get all dependencies 'composer install'
* Now you have everything needed, so you need to set up the webservice
* You need PHP, Apache2, PHPMyAdmin and MySQL installed on your system
* Go to the web at 'http://localhost:8000/admin/install/' and follow the instructions there

> **Note** I recommend this tutorial for installing the LAMP stack if you are on a linux distro: https://www.digitalocean.com/community/tutorials/how-to-install-linux-apache-mysql-php-lamp-stack-on-ubuntu-16-04

# Future plans
Even if it's in an alpha stage this project will be maintained but it will not have regular updates, because I am short on time. Hopefully it will become one day a powerful, scalable CMS.

These are some features I want to add:
- [x] Manage Images & Videos (FileSystem)
- [ ] Posts (TextSystem)
- [ ] Manage content generated by users (ManagementSystem)
- [ ] Pretty urls
- [ ] User interactions & communication (SocialSystem)
- [ ] Working with data (StatisticsSystem)
- [ ] Handling errors and requests (Logger)

# Known bugs
These are the bugs found during pentesting session. If you find more please inform me. 

> **Note** Not all bugs found here are solved. at the end there are specified vulnerable versions.

- [x] A valid token can be used anywhere, no matter of it's scope (<0.2)
- [x] Emails lose their style (<0.3)
- [x] You can't install the application if you are not logged in, and you can't login because there is no database. (Only for 0.3)
- [ ] Session cookies are not encrypted.
- [x] Remote code execution in `Upload Files` page. (<0.4)
- [x] Tokens are the same as UUID, not generated securely. (<0.4)


# Versions

This application is in early Alpha stage!
Legend:
```json
+ New feature added
? Planned to be realised
- Feature removed.
! Bug/Security issue fixed
```

Version 0.4 - Close to finish the API
+ Service installation stage completed.
+ File restructuring to separate the backend and the frontend.
+ Working with docker containers now
? Roles for users (Administrator, Moderator and Reader)
? Session cookies now generated securely
? Posts are now completed
? Home, Posts and Profile pages are now working and linked.
- Removed first installation system, because it was broken.
! Fixed the FileSystem. Now you can't upload the files with malicious content.
> **Note** At this moment this version is in it's early alpha. Don't install this on your production system!

Version 0.3
+ Posts added, early stage.
+ Automatic installation, first thing that you must do.
+ Fixes for newer mysql and php versions.
+ Twig rendering added, early stage.

Version 0.2
+ Security bugs fixed, Tokens now have specific usage, they are linked to a specific user and can be used for a specific task, before being revoked.
+ File upload system added, with implementation that can be used for future extensions
+ Mail system with 'Account confirmation' and 'Password reset' futures added.
- Removed early stage mail ( not working on UNIX based systems )
+ Now sensitive information is stored in 'vendor/env.php' file

Version 0.1
+ TokenAuth based authentication, UUID and Secure generated Tokens for all kinds of tasks
+ Users added with automatic handling of some events
+ Database communication and handle input/output